what are you eating I call this turf and
turf
it's a 16-ounce t-bone and a 24-ounce
porterhouse also whiskey and a cigar I'm
gonna consume all of this at the same
time because I am a free America the
cigars inside sir
fine hey what's up guys welcome back to
binging with babish where this week we
are belatedly celebrating 6 million
subscribers with the turf and turf from
Parks and Rec but that's not all we're
celebrating because I've partnered again
with omae's to give you the chance to
win a trip with me to New Zealand for
the ultimate lord of the rings'
experience head to omae's dot-com slash
babish or click the link in the video
description below
where a donation of $10 will enter you
for a chance to win this trip the
donations will be supporting action
against hunger which will hopefully make
up for the sins that I'm about to commit
because today we are indulging in a
16-ounce t-bone and a 24-ounce
porterhouse which if I'm being
completely honest I thought was the same
thing turns out not so over here on my
right your left we have a t-bone which
has the characteristic New York Strip
just to my left your right of the
t-shaped bone but just to my right your
left of the bone a nearly non-existent
filet mignon because t-bone steaks are
cut closer to the front of the cow
unlike the porterhouse which is cut
towards the center or rear of the cow
where the Tenderloin is much larger but
if you go too far back you're gonna
start getting a piece of top sirloin
shutting its ass into your New York
Strip bearing with it a piece of
inedible sinew it's much tougher than
the New York Strip and you end up paying
more for less so ask your butcher to
give you a center cut porterhouse which
is gonna give you the most beefy bang
for your buck so today I'm gonna be
cooking up the guy on my left your right
but enough talking about them stroking
beef with our fingers let's cook some
first things first we need to do as J
Kenji Lopez alt commands and salt and
rest our beef so onto a wire rack set in
a rimmed baking sheet they go and
covered with a generous sprinkling of
kosher salts they are then we're letting
me sit at room temperature for at least
one hour if you really want to go nuts
leave these uncovered in the fridge
overnight which is gonna give you an
extremely desiccated exterior and more
deeply seasoned meat now the one
accoutrement the Swanson appears to be
eating his steaks are a fluffy pile of
yellowy mashed potatoes to me that means
Yukon
which we are going to peel and cut into
equally sized pieces cover with cold
water bring to a boil and cook for about
20 minutes or until completely tender
and a paring knife cuts them like
they're not even there
we're then draining the potatoes
returning them to the pot and returning
the pot over medium-low heat cooking
them and stirring them around for about
a minute which is gonna help drive off
any excess moisture giving us a less
gluey result we're then adding about 1/2
a cup of half-and-half and maybe 5
tablespoons of unsalted high-quality
butter for the record this is for about
3 pounds worth of Yukon Golds now we're
gonna mash them up most of the way take
an opportunity to season liberally with
kosher salt and white pepper that way we
don't end up with the speckled potatoes
mash them up the rest of the way taste
them for seasoning and consistency and
there you have it some very simple but
very decadent mashed potatoes which
we're gonna cover and keep warm until
ready to serve because as one so clearly
states food is not the only thing being
consumed at this table there are also
cigars and whiskey the exact make and
model of which are not mentioned but we
know that Ron's favorite is Lagavulin 16
which tastes like a delicious tire fire
well yeah that'll put some hair on your
chest
that is definitely Swanson appropriate
liquor so with all of our sort of side
dishes ready to go we're ready to make
us some steaks first up for the
porterhouse we're heating some vegetable
oil in a heavy cast-iron pan over high
heat for about five minutes until it's
nothing short of straight-up smoking we
are then patting our porterhouse as dry
as humanly possible before poisoned Lee
plunking it into our cast iron pan
blasting it in the face with all the
heat that our stove can muster for about
two minutes until a deep dark brown
robust crust has formed on the first
side but then given this guy a flip and
repeating the process on the opposite
side then I wanted to try preparing this
in the style of bistecca alla Fiorentina
first I'm gonna give the fat cap a
little lovin before killing the heat and
standing the steak upright upon its to
bone the bone is gonna protect the
steaks from the heat of the pan and
prevent them from cooking unevenly as we
place them into a 450 degree fahrenheit
oven we want to reach an internal temp
of the thickest point of about 120
degrees Fahrenheit just enough time to
deal with our t-bone this time I am
smoking out a carbon steel pan which
doesn't retain heat as well as cast iron
but it heats up much more quick
which makes it perfect for a thinner
snake like this that we're just gonna
sear and butter based same procedures
before just hit it over ripping high
heat before flipping don't get too
discouraged if you don't have a very
even crust we're gonna fix that in post
so to speak first in demand go a few
cloves of crushed garlic and a couple
sprigs of fresh rosemary and thyme and
then just a whole lot of high-quality
unsalted butter I'm going with about
five tablespoons once the butter is
melted which should happen very very
quickly we're tipping the pan
towards the garlic and the herbs and may
sting the steak here it is from another
angle for illustrative purposes and this
is not only gonna even out the color it
is going to deeply flavor our steak as
it finishes cooking
what's the thickest part of the steak
registers about a buck twenty-five
Fahrenheit we're removing it onto a warm
plate and bathing it one last time in
all that Irby garlicky brown butter and
indisputably erotic sentence meanwhile
are vertically cooking porterhouse is
coming out of the oven because it's
reached 120 degrees Fahrenheit internal
yes I cheated and used a thermometer the
steak costed like $100 and now as I have
so emphatically repeated over the years
we need to let these guys rest for at
least 10 minutes before digging in the
t-bone I'm gonna serve hold that the
porterhouse I'm gonna carve up steak
house-style
that is removing the strip and the filet
mignon from the bone slicing and plating
up in their original orientation Peter
Luger doesn't really bash the method
where they slightly undercooked the
steak slice it plate it up like this and
then throw the plate under a broiler but
I'm not trying to be too experimental
today so let's save that for another
episode and there you have it ladies and
gentlemen about a hundred and fifty
bucks worth of prime dry-aged beef
singing a delicate distinctly American
duet known as the turf and turf all
there is left to do is smoke em if you
gottem nope okay I am being informed by
my attorney that's not a very good idea
so I guess we'll save that for after
dinner
you won't hear me complaining coz it's
time to dig into these perfectly cooked
steaks and all I can tell you guys about
a prime steak swimming in Irbid brown
butter is who needs drugs this is what
meat drunk feels like I could feel every
red blood cell coursing through my veins
the porterhouse was excellent on its own
so excellent in fact that I forgot
entirely that I hadn't seasoned it with
freshly ground pepper or big crunchy
flakes of Maldon salt or generous
drizzle of high-quality olive oil all
things that I recommend that you do if
you try this and something I discovered
is I am
not Ron Swanson I can't finish this
alone so here's my best friend attorney
and business partner Sawyer to the boat
looks like he was anticipating this to
help me ensure that not a single bite of
this feast goes to waste also to make
sure that I live long enough to keep
making this show because this was in the
end a celebratory meal the channel
recently hits 6 million subscribers and
hit a billion views I just bought a
house and it is 100% thanks to you guys
I'm so excited to show you the new
kitchen premiere some all new content on
the channel and make the absolute most
of the ridiculous and beautiful
opportunities that you've given me thank
you guys so much for watching and thank
you for helping me reach 6 million
subscribers and a big THANK YOU to
omae's for helping me offset some of the
horrendous let me in this episode with
an amazing New Zealand Lord of the Rings
experience for good cause not only will
we explore New Zealand together but you
will help me cook a second breakfast in
the Shire we'll also tour Hobbiton and
have an evening feast in Matsumoto we'll
tour the wet at workshop where the sets
costumes armor and creatures of lore the
rings were created we'll also go to
Tonga Reno National Park where all the
Mordor scenes were filmed in the movies
it'll be seven days and six nights full
of Lord of the Rings lor head on over to
omae's comm slash babish we'll click the
link in the video description below
where a donation of $10 will enter you
for a chance to win this trip every
donation supports action against hunger
and their mission to end world hunger
one more time that's omae's comm slash
babish mell see you in middle-earth
[Music]